>> Steve Kinney: There is a issue here,
right?
I only had to solve this problem because
I was keeping my state in the dom, right?
I had to go measure stuff
before I could mutate it.
I don't keep my data in the dom anymore,
I write angular or ember or react.
I keep things in state, right?
So you could for instance put together
some kind of component like this which
keeps track and this is a half component,
it's what I could fit on a screen.
I'm gonna keep an array
of all of my width.
I'm gonna shoot them under
the page over here and
then I will just double those numbers and
re-render.
Before you would not have
to read from the dom and
if don't read from the dom you
can write as much as you want.
You're never gonna have
a layout trashing issue,
never is a strong word cuz I showed you
one, it was in react, but generally
speaking this very isolated incident that
should solve all of our problems, right?
So lets see what happens, it turns out I
have a React running with this React app
running, with the same thing going on.
>> Steve Kinney: And we can measure it,
we can compare the differences.
>> Steve Kinney: So
go ahead, do a recording.
>> Steve Kinney: And you can see that,
wow, this is kinda weird.
There's a lot of stuff happening in here.
That's not great.
I told you you can get React
information in the user timing API.
So you can see, this is reconciling
the React tree and an app update,
so on and so forth, right?
There's a lot of stuff happening here and
57 milliseconds isn't great for
changing a bunch of bars.
But it turns out that I am
committing one of the worst
crimes in web performance which is,
I'm using React in development mode and
expecting production level performance.
React does a bunch of stuff.
I told you before, measuring takes time.
So React is doing a whole bunch
of stuff in development mode
to give you these pretty things and
manage a whole bunch of stuff.
And checking prop types and
all these things and that stuff is slow.
And so if you have the React developer
tools sometimes you can see a page
where this will be black if it's
using React in production mode and
it will be this like scary orange
if it's used in development mode.
As fun to like keep that going,
just go visit sites that are still
running in development mode.
I mean, and it's like one of
the things sometimes I think
says they do it on purpose I mean if they
say it, that means they know about it and
they've decided that that's
now their new state.
Right, some websites are totally doing it
by accident sometimes it's like don't know
about it and sometimes it's like somebody
tried to change the webpack build and
now we're accidentally shipping
the development code, right?
This has happened to my app a few times.
So this is really helpful.
So it turns out 57 milliseconds
we're doing all of this extra stuff.
That's not great, right?
So having it in development
mode is suboptimal.
Let's actually compare what that looks
like though, because it turns out that I
also have a version of this app in
that repository that is built for
production mode.
So let's go ahead and actually,
I should have it over here.
Same application, let's record it again.
Wow, that's much better right?
That's...let's compare and contrast.
Giant spike of sad yellow.
Little bump.
Alright, the simple fact of
being in development mode
is a huge difference
versus production mode.
Right, now you can see there's still
a bunch of stuff happening here.
And this is again the eternal trade for
performance when it comes to
using a framework, right.
The framework is gonna make
decisions a lot of the time for you.
It make it easier to keep your state
out of the dump which like helps
you avoid layout trashing.
They like batch all your dump things for
you but they are JavaScript code and
they take a certain
amount of overhead Right?
And that is always
the tradeoff you need to make.
I am of the belief system that generally,
especially if you have a team and
you have a wide range of experiences and
you're trying to get product out
the door that the cost of using
a framework is beneficial for you, right?
But if you had a bunch of,
if you sat there and really wanted
to fine tune your application,
hand-crafted application will probably be
faster But like, probably not worth it.
But yeah,
you can see there is some overhead.
But you can see that we're still at like,
9.3 milaseconds.
I'm gonna call this a win, right?
It's just something to consider and
something to think about.
>> Steve Kinney: So yeah.
Friendly fact,
production mode is important in React.
I have another slide that's
gonna say this again later,
because I've literally made
this mistake multiple times.
So I feel like if I keep repeating myself,
you will think about it.
And if you don't write React,
there's probably a version of this for
your application and
is definitely worth checking.
Cuz there was a dramatic
change of 9.3 milliseconds.
I figured what the first thing was, but
it was a lot longer with a lot
more sadness in that graph.
So definitely make sure you're using
production mode for whatever it is.
All right, cool.
So
>> Steve Kinney: So
it doesn't,
does React solve your problems for you?
Right?
Maybe, maybe not, right?
You can still see that slide that
I showed earlier where I have
a React app that still has this problem.
It's not gonna get you all the way there.
Having a framework is helpful,
you still need to be mindful.
You still need to measure.
Right and these things can still happen.
I assume with your question you're
thinking about like what was
the answer to this.
I don't know yet.
I haven't dug in.
[LAUGHS] But looks like I've got a few
little issues here on the simple drag
in and drop in button and like I measured
it and now I can go ahead and fix it.
So kinda key takeaways here are don't mix
reading layout properties and write them,
you'll do unnecessary work.
Also, if you can just change
something by adding a CSS class,
kinda going back to that style
calculation, we don't read that at all.
This one, we want to double up
a bunch of individual bars.
But with just adding a class,
you will cause one reflow, but
there's no way that you can
get yourself into that loop.
So, if you can handle this by just having
a CSS class that has the second state that
you want versus trying to do it by hand
and calculating everything, go for that.
That is always going to be
the safer option for you.
In storing data and memory, whether
it's in react,2I stored it in the state,
in that case I showed you earlier.
But like, you know, you could easily just
keep it in array somewhere in memory if
you were doing this by hand.
There's nothing React, and Angular, and
Ember, all written in JavaScript, right?
Anything you can do with those frameworks,
you could do on your own.
Like, keeping all those widths in an array
was probably smarter than keeping
them in the dom to begin with, right?
That's not always an option that you have,
right?
Like, when I'm editing user content,
right,
I don't always have that luxury, right?
So it's something to
keep in mind either way.
You don't need a framework.
You can do bad things still,
if you have a framework, as I showed you.
I'm guilty of it.
And finally, the major point is you
might not even know that you're layout
thrashing, cuz I didn't until I
went to take that screenshot.
That's kinda like the moral of the story.